are seos and C's mortal
enemies
[Music]
probably how to make SEO and conversion
rate optimization work together hey I'm
Sam Dunning founder over at breaking
bb.com in this episode I was invited
onto the from A to B podcast we dive
into how SEO and cro conversion rate
optimization can work as a team so from
the SEO perspective driving High intent
prospects that are searching for your
offer on Google and then from cro
conversion rate optimization making sure
your website works super hard to convert
those visitors into signups leads or
demos with that let's dive into the
episode are seos and C mortal
enemies probably if anything
like if it's anything like SEO and web
devs then probably
yes depending on the size of the
organization right I mean so many times
seos can want to get content shipped be
articles landing pages whatever yeah
Quee it up the web dev puts it to the
bottom of the list purely because
they're annoyed by being nagged so much
by the SEO and then 10 weeks later you
might see a page published you know it's
funny it always feels like cro is like
like the stepchild of the relationship
actually I don't want to say that that's
kind of [__] weird to say um I've
always felt like cro is on the outside
of things looking in and SEO always gets
the love SEO always gets all of the
resourcing well okay I say that tongue
and cheek CU like if we get table scraps
we're excited we're like thank you for
the table
scraps you you guys are also fighting
for resources too then
yeah yeah man like it's funny I just got
off a call literally 10 minutes ago
before this show and this is like a
company with 500 to a th000 employees
really well established fast growth B2B
Tech and then they basically just got
burned by the last Agency for SEO they
didn't really do anything and then when
we get around to like what are you
prepared to invest and they're like 3K a
month and I'm like are you joking like
you're probably doing like over 100
Grand a month in ads and you're going to
do 3K in SEO like what's that going to
get you for the size of your business
like how much resource do you think we
can actually assign for that so it's SEO
often organic search compared to like
paid demand gen and a bunch outbound
sales team it's at the bottom of the
pile as well man SEO is like something
folks forget about leave for as long as
they can until they feel the pain of
constantly seeing Brands above the
organic search then they'll start
considering it why do you think that is
I have a very good grasp on why cro
doesn't get the love it needs why does
SEO not get the love
number of reasons I think I think it's
just because certainly from a lot of the
things I speak to are B2B Tech right and
I think from that perspective it's just
a traditional model like especially for
funded B2B companies in the tech world
like usually they'll go outbound sales
they'll hire a team of sdrs bdrs and go
that traditional motion to set
appointments then they'll because
they've probably got investors on their
back they'll probably dump a load of
cash into paid ads be it Google search
um be it then using LinkedIn ads to
retarget capture the right Market build
some demand and then only probably once
they've ran that on its course and maybe
hit some kind of cap and then probably
someone's pointed out to them be it one
of the VCS be it a marketing leader or
someone like that until someone said
like we're not really getting any
organic inbound our competitors are
always ahead of us like when I search
for alternatives to Our Brands there's
always competitors ahead of us then they
might think about doing some sea so it's
neglected a lot so it's just not sexy
people don't think it's sexy unless
leadership have have done SEO previously
or have handson expertise yeah that's
the time where it gets brought in
earlier yeah they understand the value
so it's it's really funny because I
think SEO and cro share a lot of
commonality in that because so many
times the things that people assume cro
does is it's a checklist of best
practices to just Implement on your site
I got a DM today from someone and
they're like tell me the things I need
to do on my site to increase conversion
rate I'm like I don't [__] know show
me research show me data like that it's
that's not how it works and maybe it's
because like even SEO from folks I've
talked to with SEO there's not always a
guarantee that if you do rituals and
activities you'll get guaranteed lifts
now there's there's a process you follow
but Google could just roll out a new
algo that just totally [__] everything
that you've done right exactly exactly
especially like two days ago they
released AI overviews in the US oh yeah
the the AI instant results are coming
although that's going to affect more b2c
and more top of funnel kind of
informational queries yeah eventually
that a lot of kind of Publishers that
will impact that have been relying on
that kind of traffic so like you say you
can't control the algo and there's
always stuff outside of our control yeah
so I saw this infographic on some
website some Rush and it was a
concentric circles of SEO and cro and
the overl I don't know if they did this
for just visual purposes or this is
truly however much overlap they thought
but the amount of overlap was very small
and I don't know if I agree or disagree
with that what do you think the amount
of overlap between SEO and C is is it a
two two concentric circles that are
totally overlapped they don't even
intersectors it a small like what do you
think yeah I'll give my two cents and
then you can dive into where I'm
extremely wrong on the C side
things so I mean there's so many
elements to SEO right but you get youve
only got a scroll LinkedIn and you'll
see folks that are super technical on
the SEO side and they'll start talking
about heading tags ahre stuff and like
diving into deep SEO stuff that I don't
even understand that's so funny because
that's like the math people in cro right
for me at least I'm not a math geek but
there's some there's so many parallels
that's so interesting okay sorry sorry
whereas I'm like the opposite end of
that I'm like do basic technical SEO but
unless your website's got 10 20 30,000
Pages like technical SEO isn't that
important and as long as you nail the
basics um I'm more strategy content
what's going to move the needle fast and
start getting us qualified traffic to
drive leads demos whatever our next step
is so when it comes to the kind of
overlap so there's a few elements you
want to think of like the SEO can be
split into like technical SEO MH content
L
SEO customer research which a lot of
seos don't even talk about like if your
content that you're putting out be it on
landing pages service Pages Alternatives
Pages blog articles be them top middle
or bottom of the funnel like if that if
that content is just built to rank
instead of actually to resonate with
these Target clients I.E the expensive
problems they're facing the impact of
those problems and not fixing them
showing some social proof and then
building trust answering their common
questions Etc to depending on what type
of page it is whether it's a landing
page whatever but if that content isn't
resonating and you're just building its
rank someone's going to click on that
page look it for a few seconds and think
this is like a [__] wall of text I'm
heading off to someone who gives me a
better experience and actually
understands my world um and then when
you layer that with I suppose my
understanding the cro side of things
like actually something that's going to
look good and influence this Prospect to
take some kind of action so if it's like
a top of the funnel article maybe diving
into their Niche or questions around the
niche or best practices like if it's an
article that's like I said then purely a
w of text whether something that's
compared to something that's nicely
designed right like the article the P
the paragraphs are nicely split up it's
skimmable it's got some infographics in
maybe it's got a video rundown maybe
it's a SAS P maybe it's for a SAS piece
of software so it's got like a video
demo or playable demo it's got some
customer quotes it's got some examples
some stats it's maybe got a fixed cool
to action to the right hand side so you
can check out that newsletter or Grab A
Lead magnet um as opposed to just a wool
of text that someone's goingon to flick
on and look think oh this looks like a
bloody essay that I'm just going to
bounce off to another page so there's
there's a lot of things
there yeah it's interesting to hear you
talk about customer research because
that's something that c and SEO should
share in that when we talk
about like what is
valuable C to like
I don't want to say what you're saying
isn't cro because I think that could be
part of it it could be part of the
optimization part but cro and I say I
you see our own experimentation kind of
interchangeably and I think it's more
just like how do you optimize user
experience but also how do you generate
motivation how do you build demand
things like that I would say are all
part of the quote unquote cro
optimization experimentation process
which those things I think do have
overlap with SEO because you want to
build content that is valuable to users
which will inherently generate
motivation and it has to content wise
work on an SEO perspective you have to
look at the research to make sure it's
actually content they would consume not
look at it for 10 seconds be like this
sucks and leave but even if the
content's great if it looks like it's
just a text file on your website and it
maybe it'd be great if you had gifts or
other things to make it more
engaging then that's probably going to
impact your SEO but I mean dude that's
obviously going to affect your actual
conversion rates as well mhm so that
stuff's pretty interesting to hear how
much overlap there is between those
two
um so we talk about content I wanted to
share an example with you because this
was a pretty fun thing that I had to
kind of go through when I was at Gartner
this is I guess SEO adjacent it's in
paid search for Quality score but I
think the concept is still kind of the
same
when we were running tests there would
be certain tests where we would see our
quality score increase and to me quality
score is the adjacent of like SEO score
just like improving your
SEO when we had a very very long page I
had a lot of content related to keyword
searches we would see our quality score
increase our cpc's go down but our
conversion rates tanked so we're like
all right noted and then we would
actually redirect them to another page
where it was more conversion focused
less content and we would actually see
quality scores decrease so that's where
I say like are we like do we hate each
other because sometimes it does feel
like there can be this like yeah when
one goes up the other goes down and vice
versa it's always going to be a battle
isn't it especially when from an SEO
perspective if you're trying to outrank
certain pages that often means that
you've got to build out a page that's
more useful more helpful more valuable
than whatever is ranking organic
position one right now yeah um technical
SEO and backlink profile aside and that
usually means
putting understanding what that page is
lacking whether it's kind of Hands-On
content from someone that's experienced
in the subject experience in the field
whether that's addressing more FAQs than
they're handling whether it's handling
more objections in the copy whether it's
sharing unique data like a yeah I don't
know some kind of survey that you've
conducted and then using that or whether
it's with in some kind of unique tool
that you've built out for the audience
but often that means that the page is
going to be certainly from an article
perspective fairly long form then I can
see like you said a cro coming into play
and saying like no one's going to scroll
that far dude like it needs to be like
one quarter of the length yeah but there
is there as you know there's there's
things that you can do to make sure
content's presented in a way that's
better for the user and there's a bunch
of ways you can do that like it doesn't
have to be long form what do you think
about like identifying the purpose of
the page cuz I actually think that's
something that's probably incredibly
important for SEO that you have like
blog posts and you're like the purpose
of the blog post is not to generate
thousands of leads it exists as content
to get people hooked into the website
brand Awareness stuff like
that yeah so I think that's maybe
something that cro tend to maybe ignore
and you think about like Oh's just give
you like a basic Ecom example right like
you think all right the product Page's
purpose equals get people into cart and
the cart's page purpose equals get
people into checkout like overly
simplistic but I don't think that's the
reality and Ma David Manheim talks a
little bit about this too like it's
stages not Pages where that's nice what
is it's rhyming is obviously the name of
the game right it has to has to rhyme
but the whole theory around that is it's
not the the page doesn't equal the part
of the funnel it's what's the user's
head at so an example would be like if I
I do this a lot I go to a product page
because I had a coupon I'm like I just
want to know if this coupon even works
cuz if if it's 15% off then that's great
and I'm going to go to the checkout and
I'm going to put the code in that
doesn't mean I have high intent I
actually have quite low intent because
I'm just trying to test the coupon yeah
exactly exactly is that something that
seos consider quite a bit they should do
I don't know if everyone does I don't
know if every but in SEO it's it's
usually referred to a search intent yeah
so it's like if a lot of the stuff I
talk about from a B2B perspective so for
example like you said there you could
have something that was relatively low
intent so in my game it might be someone
that's I don't know searching for like
B2B SEO tools or if they're in if
they're in maybe the looking for a
proposal software game or something like
that like how to write sales proposals
that convert or top tips for sales
proposals like that's someone really
early in the quote unquote buying
Journey
they're looking for tips ideas and
insights they're not ready to book a
demo and speak to a salesperson best
case scenario they land on your article
they grab some tips they think this is
useful and then maybe they subscribe to
your email Grab A Lead Magnet or check
out your podcast or YouTube that's the
kind of ctas that you should be
including in that article um and then
they're in your ecosystem right and then
kind of SAS companies are probably going
to then retarget that Prospect if if it
fits their ICP they're probably going to
retarget in the LinkedIn ads or whatever
ads relevant it's very unlikely that
person's going to book a demo so if
you're jamming a book a demo CTO down
their neck like it's not going to do a
lot whereas if we go further down the
funnel if someone's like if I go back to
the proposal software game if someone's
searching for like if they're weighing
up their options maybe they're looking
like proposify
Alternatives or Panda do Alternatives
like just some common proposal software
brand names then they're probably
weighing up their options they're
probably on the fence and thinking well
I want to get two or three vendors let's
look at kind of what else is on the
table in that case that will typically
present if you did that kind of search
that would typically present a lisal
like top 10 alternatives to propos by or
top 10 alternatives to Panda do and that
is high intent because that's someone
that's on the fence and thinking I want
to wear out my options and that could
scoop up a few demos where you kind of
position yours as as the offer you share
your points of differentiation how
you're different problems you fix that
they don't maybe you've got a table it
says this is what we do this is what
they don't do Etc and then maybe you've
got like an interactive demo on there
and a CTA to book a demo and likewise if
someone's searching like really similar
kind of down the funnel like best
proposal software for sales teams and
not typing that for fun they're typing
that because they run a sales team they
want to get some proposal software so
it's understanding the intent looking at
what kind of search results are there is
it an article page is it a solution page
is it a Lis toal is it a comparison and
then building content that's actually
relevant for where that Prospect is in
in their Journey but to your point again
B2B as messy as anything sure so many
times someone's going to go on a pay P
jump off speak to their exec team get
some recommendations off that get some
recommendations off slack get some
recommendations off a community they're
in then maybe go back to your website
then go off for a bit then go back
listen to your podcast and eventually
book a demo so nothing is it's rare that
things are clean cut and right so it's
interesting because that's one that's
one takeaway for me that cros and SEO
should absolutely be in alignment on is
like what is the purpose of this page
and how can we work together to make
sure that there is alignment
there I've been part of some
organizations where seo's kind of off
doing their own thing and C's doing
their own thing product marketing is
doing their own thing and it's it's
unfortunate when the silos exist so I
think that's something I staple quite a
bit is like CR need to try and do their
best to like Mr gorbachov tear down
these walls and do their absolute best
to be connective tissue connecting all
these things it shouldn't be C's job but
if it's cro doing it because no one else
is doing it like [__] it that's fine
that's great because I do think that
unifies everyone together because even
you think about not even SEO you just
think about like let's just say you have
a company and someone owns like site
search someone owns cart someone owns
checkout like if these are is isolated
silos and I get I increase a bunch of
traffic from search into like product
page and then you own product page and I
see my conversion rates go down and I'm
like well you're sending me shitty
traffic
like it shouldn't be these isolated
where my kpis just increase my top and
don't give a [__] about what happens
down funnel SEO cro I see a natural
connection of like I need to make sure
you're sending me good quality traffic
but I need to I need to have the
connections with you to give you signals
to say by the way it looks like I'm
seeing some interesting signals I'm
seeing some negative signals some
positive signals and that's where
there's there's a alignment that should
be made there
yeah I agreed I agree I mean I imagine
that happens quite a lot in larger scale
organizations where things are kind of
split off I suppose unfortunate in the
sense that a lot of the time I haven't
worked with huge companies like some are
some are fairly decent size but I'm I'm
fortunately in most cases where haven't
had that much trouble but then on the
same thing a lot of the companies I work
with are not Ecom so I can imagine that
can get a bit bit more detailed and
granular what do you
think what do seos care
about broad one um if you're me I I
think every SEO is a bit different like
like I said earlier I think some are are
super technical so technical mind some
are more content L which I'd say I'd
fool between kind of content and
strategy and kind of more practical
attitude and then some are a bit more
holistic um and then folks like me that
are more kind of B2B Tac and B2B service
Niche but thing with me is that I'm from
a sales
background so whilst I'm a Founder at
breaking B2B in my past I was a sales
guy for a long long time eventually
learned marketing learned about websites
then learned SEO could drive leads to
websites that could fuel me I could hit
my commissions and I could close these
leads so I'm very much of a a revenue
Focus which is why I ramble on about
this stuff on my podcast and Link did
all that kind of thing like yeah what's
the point from my perspective doing SEO
if it's not going to lead to fueling
your sales team with a steady stream of
demos leads sales calls whatever that
CTA is yeah why go for kind of random
blog posts that might produce a bunch of
traffic but in the long run aren't
really going to do a lot unless you're
just using them for internal links and
stuff like that to beef up other Pages
like right what is the point if we can't
get an end product that's actually going
to grow revenue and grow business so
that's very much kind of what I talk
about and what we focus on yeah I was
asking that question because that like
that's what we care about right like we
both care about the same things and we
both but I'm curious if there are
different ways to
approach solving for that metric that
maybe that's the reason why seos and C
don't necessarily work well together or
maybe they see each other as enemies
when like we should be on the same team
right we're all fighting for the same
battle but yet when I start the
conversation right your immediate
reaction which I totally agreed with is
like yeah I think we are
enemies but so like I'm trying to figure
out why like why is that the case we we
are fighting the same battle but we're
enemies I guess it's it's more because
how resources
split I think from my experience if a
company is like hiring a I don't know if
I've worked with companies that have
like a separate cro unit MH but I've had
companies that where we've been doing
the SEO and might have had a separate c
a web dev team that might have had cro
underneath that but it's kind of like
when that resource gets split and gets
siloed off like you said earlier and
like we're making all these
recommendations we're producing all the
content and we're kind of building a
solid strategy from the SEO perspective
and then getting pushed back from the
web team and they don't want to do
things like we said or maybe it's going
to take longer than planned and as you
know when you've got sites that are
perhaps limited on the SE maybe they
haven't done much o work yet and their
website is very thin on content like
it's very poor from an SEO standpoint we
want to start publishing content as
quick as we possibly can to start
getting that cwed by Google and start
getting some traction but we only
getting push back from teams that maybe
want to make the page perfect from a
design perspective M very much just like
bloody ship it let's get it starting
ranking then we can improve the design
then when we get in traffic we can look
at cro a bit more detailed and we can
start tweaking things we can run tests
like this page has no traffic yet man
let's just get out there so it's one of
those it's funny you say that because C
would probably align with that like in
many cases I I want I don't want to
speak for all but in many cases as long
as the page your shipping passes a
threshold of like not going to [__] your
site up non-
inferior and it's it's obviously with
new content it's hard to test new
content versus not so it it wouldn't be
something you would probably test more
just analyze but in in many C cases
there is that level of practicality of
just if you have to do something like
SEO just has to ship out these Pages I'd
say just ship them but keep your eye on
metrics keep your eye on making sure
that nothing just is broken in terms of
user experience that you're not totally
tanking other parts of your site because
you're maybe pushing a bunch of traffic
to this new page which isn't you know it
doesn't have to be optimized but it just
can't be [__] it has to be you know good
enough and then you take that Baseline
and improve on it
um there's two kind of approaches to
like people think of optimization in a
many ways as like I'm going to give you
a thing now like I'm gonna give you a a
pig put lipstick on it actually that's
not bad that's a bad example uh I'm
gonna give you a thing that's ugly make
it beautiful whatever it is but in many
cases experimentation can also be
validation and risk mitigation that you
were going to ship something and it
passes through a filter of
experimentation and right well you test
it and when you roll it out you're like
oh my God this sucks thank God we didn't
ship it because now we have data that it
sucks I don't know how much that relates
to SEO well that's the thing like how
often I suppose the question for you is
how often do you get involved with pages
that are more heavy on organic traffic
because I can imagine a lot of what
you're talking about the principles
would apply to paid traffic but I'd
guess a page would need to get a certain
amount of organic traffic visitors to it
yeah before becomes like like you said
yeah you've got to have a threshold as
an organization this page has got to be
to a certain standard yeah I it's got if
it's I don't know if it's a solution
page it's got a solid hero area certain
levels of social proof it's got FAQs
it's got qualification parts let's say
you've had this designed threshold it
needs to hit um but until it gets a
certain amount of traffic from organic
search if it's hitting that Baseline I
imagine cro is not even like relevant
because it's not like I don't know then
top spots are Google so it's not getting
that traffic to Warrant it whereas I
suppose if you're doing a paid campaign
then it's getting that Bang from day one
and it's a lot more important like what
your thoughts there so it depends the
math can be different that you could say
it's not simply just traffic it has to
be the metric that you're looking to
optimize for so if you have 20,000
sessions but your conversion rate's
0.2% still not you're probably not going
to be able to detect any change unless
you make a very large change that's just
kind of how the math Works um there
people argue oh you need at least
200,000 sessions I disagree it's just
it's going to be easier if you have
200,000 sessions but that doesn't mean
it should be gatee kept that you
shouldn't but when you say cro like just
to be clear when I say cro I don't
explicitly just mean AB testing it ALS C
can also Encompass like research and a
pre- and post analysis while far from
scientific is still an analysis it's not
a test but it's an analysis
and confounded to hell and the evidence
is just going to be hard to say
causally but you guys I'm sure do a ton
of that too like SEO I know there's some
tools that do SEO AB testing but for the
most part you guys are shipping Changers
and just like watching to see if it gets
traffic and right exactly yeah exactly
like like you said with that kind of
shipping something make sure it hits
like a design layout functionality
threshold and that's what you're doing
with SEO right you never know you you
could nothing ever is ever perfect like
a website is is evolving it's growing
it's constantly changing um which at
least it should be yeah if you want it
to ramp up but yeah with SEO you're
going in you're using tools like you
there there should be a few angles that
you do right to to get a page ranking it
should be understand the intent yeah
understand what's ranking now yes use
SEO tools but HF semrush whatever to
understand kind of what Search terms
weave in technical best practices Etc
then weave in customer research which a
lot of seos neglect so understand like
based upon this page if it is an
Alternatives page for example if we go
back to the The Proposal soft for
example like someone searching for an
alternative to another vendor what do we
know from our customer research like
what problems are we fixing that our
competitors aren't yeah how are we
different what is the impact of not
fixing that like what are the benefits
we provide that they don't are we
different on I don't know maybe you can
get ramped up quicker maybe you can
unlock certain features quicker Maybe
maybe your your time to value is FAS or
whatever how can we highlight that from
our research on the page yeah got a nice
customer review video that literally
drills in on that pain point that we can
showcase there um and that's just stuff
that a lot of seos skip because they
just think oh let's rank it that's
enough like we don't need someone to do
much more run on the page when obviously
like as we know we need to earn that
person's trust resonate with them and
then build trust and then convert them
yeah okay I love this so this is this is
kind of the where I want to spend some
time on which is like all right well
we've determined from the beginning that
we're enemies because we're fighting for
resources but listenting of the glass
half full what can we do to partner
together because we do have a shared
goal we want to be friends we just don't
like each other because we're fighting
over resources um what can we do to
partner together and you're talking
about like so you guys are conducting
research I would say in a best case
scenario the research that you guys are
collecting is is the same research that
cro should also have access to or vice
versa any re like that's where there
should be this pretty T tight-knit
collaboration that any research we see
I'm telling you so you're aware and vice
versa so that's like easy slam dunk one
to make sure we're all looking at the
same body of work and we're all working
towards optimizing for the the same
problem statements that our users face
if you if SEO has a body of research
that's Z doesn't have access to like
it's of course we're going to go into
two different parallel p uh parallel
we're going to go into very different
paths yeah yeah yeah so I guess the way
I'd imagine it in my head is like just
because I purely work off Google Docs
and sheets for pretty much everything
and so does our company like I literally
imagine having like a shared Google
sheet or Doc and basically saying look
this is the customer research we've got
let's say we're doing it for a client
this is the customer research they've
given us like these are the main pain
points these are the icps
these are their frustrations these are
their jobs to be done these are their
goals here's some kind of social proof
we can leverage at different points of
the journey all right cool we've got
that on file this is I don't know in the
SEO case like these are a couple of
keywords we're going after for the page
we know that in this case we're building
like a comparison Alternatives lisal
just a listicle type blog article so I
give you all that information then I
maybe propose like this is some of the
content and outlines that we Pro propose
for the page and then maybe you your
team come back to me and say well these
are like the elements this is how the
page should be structured these are some
of the best practices that that we need
to consider I think so and and that's
where when we are you know going back to
the very beginning well we're fighting
for resources no what we should both be
fighting for that same thing and like
you want that page for the SEO we want
that page because the customers are
asking for that content and we could we
could optimize it we could add the forms
we could test on it and it behooves us
to have that shared goals knowing that
we're both fighting for these resources
so that to me seems like the in very
easy slam dunk for us to work together
yeah exactly and then like if you are
doing it for a client or whether it's
internal it doesn't matter like the
quicker that you can prove that this
page is perform performing in this case
it's probably demos that we want to go
after from this Alternatives page like
if you can optimize it to do that and
our page can improve sessions times it
can rank well and at the same time kind
of build enough trust to get these folks
looking a demo like that's that's a win
for everyone so let me ask that question
cuz obviously what's important to quote
unquote cro is conversion rate not
really it depends on what you're
optimizing for but for the most part at
the end of the day we are trying most C
or most experimentation people are just
trying to get more people to book a demo
add to car convert like we're looking
for the business driving metrics aov RPV
stuff like that for Ecom and B2B mql SQL
yeah that's I guess that's not really
tactical that's pretty strategic because
that's just like make the business money
but like what when when you launch a new
page or when you run an SEO initiative
so you talked about things like session
is it is it as simple as like bounce
rates time onite Pages a session like
what are the things that seos are
looking for to determine success or what
are are looking for to say it's not
working yeah good one good one so I mean
it should be like if you doing it if
you're doing your SEO from a commercial
standpoint you should have research
anyway like you should be able to know
like this this this page is could if we
can get it to the top three positions we
know it can get roughly this amount of
traffic and if we take this kind of
rough percentage Baseline as a
conversion rate and we know once we get
it there we can get roughly x amount of
leads off the back of it once we get it
there but then yeah metrics you'll
measure as you go is naturally you meas
the you'll measure the organic ranking
then you'll from there you'll be able to
understand the amount of traffic then
you'll dive into things like you said
like the session time if the website's
got a horrible bounce rate then we know
something's off whether it's the design
the UI the content the copy the
messaging yeah the formatting on mobile
PC whatever yeah um the page speed I
don't know something's off um and that's
where I think SEO and cro have another
huge opportunity for collaboration right
like have you looked at heat maps have I
yeah not that much really I used to
don't get involved in that much anymore
so that's something that I think can be
incredibly powerful for seos at C's geek
out a lot in and like figuring out where
drop offs happen could actually help on
content optimization right it's not just
time on page but if they only scroll to
like if you see a drop off in a page is
like this one chapter and after they
read that they left that could feed into
your content to say well [__] maybe we
need to like think about this content a
little bit better or reward this
paragraph right yeah that's a great
Point yeah especially if yeah like you
say if the if the drop off's consistent
and you can work out where that's
happening so it could be content right
it could be the content drop off it
could even be template which maybe then
you kick it back to seo's like it's not
my fault you can figure it out cro but
yeah yeah I that's where I think there's
so much opportunity for collaboration
that I'm I'm still like I know why we
hate each other but we shouldn't we
really shouldn't we're on the same team
I think I think if you could work in
that way that we talked about earlier
where it's like everything that's
proposed is is shared yeah and if there
if there's a way where teams can get
stuff signed off and actions done
quickly but it my experience like unless
you're a fast moving startup it's so
rare to see like I know teams where
they're looking at two to three months
especially in like the finance and
fintech space just to get Pages
published yeah which is insane whereas
we've got other funded startups I work
with and we can get stuff shipped like
super fast yeah yeah I
mean that's a I mean that's obviously a
challenge that's not unique to cro but
that's also why I I tell C this it is
shouldn't we should have more of these
conversations that SEO should be
involved in testing because you guys
provide that valuable POV for certain
things that we probably wouldn't have
considered product owner should be
involved engineering should be involved
ux should be involved design like
research teams everyone should have
input into this because that's what
creates the cohesive that all these
things if you isolate out then you're
going to create further isolation and
then you're going to create Well's going
to put a bunch of traffic and then it's
all garbage and then C's like you don't
you you don't
create it creates further distances when
instead those gaps should be bridged
with folks working together and I think
that's kind of the Genesis of where I
wanted to roll up and talk to you with
this is like how do we work together so
I ask like what do what do SC what do
make what makes seo's tick how do we
Bridge these gaps and I think we've come
up with some pretty interesting next
steps right like let's just shared
shared docks shared research don't
reinvent the wheel if you already have
the research let's pull everything we
have together involve the teams what
other thoughts do you have on maybe ways
that SEO knowing that seos tick a
certain way how can maybe cro tap into
that to make sure we don't step on your
toes but we know what you like so we
could give you more of that so we could
work together better yeah think a lot of
seos like this is blunt statement but
some are probably less open-minded than
me very much stuck in their ways I want
to see also are very close-minded too to
be fair yeah I mean that like I say you
get different types of seos right and at
the end of the day because I've got that
sales background I'm happy to do it and
just like yourself I run a podcast so my
opinions on things change all the time
because I'm constantly talking in my
case to B2B marketers Revenue leaders
that smarter than me that have done
stuff I haven't done and they'll share
insights thoughts ideas and I'll still
the on that I think are decent go in
with a hypothesis and I'll experiment
with them and put them into play whether
that is on a website whether that is my
podcast whether that's with LinkedIn
content so I'm constantly tweaking
whereas I think a lot of folks
especially in this space are like
trapped in the mind of ah technical SEO
is the only way or content's the only
way or backlinks are the only way
whereas if you can kind of open your
mind a bit more and realize that there's
so much more you can do and you can like
work with other teams so can I push you
on that so I had a conversation with
Aaron wiel about problem designers so
there like you said there's kind of
problem children all over the place SEO
cro design all over the place and I
wanted to ask her like all right you're
dealing with a designer who just
believes their work is the best you
don't need to test it I know I worked at
Apple I have an MBA I have this that
blah blah blah how do what are some
signs that you're working with a
problematic SEO and what would be some
tips to try and maybe break that
shell I would say if you work on
problema that probably just looking to
rank terms okay they're probably I would
say that their approach seems very
methodical but it's not really taking
the time to understand like the business
who the idol customer is what are their
expensive problems like the bleeding
neck problems that cause them to
actually need an offer like yours that
stop them in their dayto day because
that I know resources are lacking or
leads are lacking or the business isn't
going to hit their revenue goals like
they don't understand that and that's
really important especially if the SEO
is getting involved in the content
strategy like how are you going to build
content that resonates if you don't know
the clients you're building it for um so
they're more like all right we're going
to Target a bunch of keywords we're
going to build some content we're going
to do some technical SEO we're going to
build some links we'll get it ranking
job done um whereas then a lot of the
stuff we talked about earlier in this
episode about
resonating and that kind of stuff and
then building a design and layout that's
going to going to have the have the best
chance to actually earn that trust and
get that Prospect to take that next step
so got it I think I think it's just that
holistic approach that realizing that
we're not trying to rank robots we're
trying to rank people that are emotional
they're using their emotions first and
if our page is not hitting is not
speaking to those emotions be it pain be
it Joy be it anger frustration if we
can't evoke emotion in that page yeah
and then earn their trust then we're not
going to get SLE from our
page I love it I have one final question
for but we'll we'll quickly run into the
jump and I'll ask you at the tail end of
this so let's jump into this is normally
what I would say [__] you need to know
but instead I have a unique question I
want to ask you so join us after the
jump for that unique
question I'll just play some music in
the podcast whatever um okay so here is
the question I'm very interested to hear
your perspective on I've talked to a
couple copywriters edin and a couple
other folks who are
basically we're laughing about I'd say
I'm probably dying inside a little bit
about this around AI in copyrighting as
it's seems to be a lot of times it's
Bots writing for Bots and I'm curious
about your SEO perspective on this that
like as I'm sure youve you're not I
don't know I'm actually curious are you
on the one are you on the AI hype train
and two is this a good thing for us to
have like it's it's AI Bots writing for
SEO Bots and like do we just take humans
entirely out of the equation I'm very
curious on your perspective with
this a lot of what I talk about is is
B2B Tech and B2B service like those are
my the main kind of clients we work with
at breaking B2B yeah and the thing is
like these are high ticket offers right
a lot of the folks I'm working with are
selling like 50k 60k ACV like if this
content doesn't work super hard there's
no chance it's going to convert AI
content whilst you can there's so many
tools now that you can use to build out
page Frameworks through Ai and I don't
think there's necessarily anything wrong
with that so I don't think there's
anything wrong with using AI tool as a
starter like this is a rough outline of
maybe the meta title and description
idea H1 H2 H3 idea rough format of the
page and and the kind of layout of the
page you should consider I think that's
okay but I think anything more than that
if you land on a page and you start
seeing things like supercharge your
revenues 20x allinone platform today
invest in our hyper performance Wizardry
you'll think what the [__] is this
company doing just bounce off to a
company that unes talk sense all right
I'm gonna ask question I've asked I've
asked every guest this since I found
this headline it's the dumbest [__]
headline I've ever heard tell me what
company family tell me what product
family this headline relates to the
future is
here is that a headline on H page on a
hom
page got to be a CRM surely no I don't I
don't it's you're like the fact that you
can't even be in like the right
family is just a testament to exactly
what you're saying I'm pretty sure
that's an AI because if like if a human
wrote that we're doomed as Humanity if
that's someone's if that went through an
approval process that went through
branding there's like 20 people who saw
that and they're like this is the best
thing in the world maybe we actually
[__] it maybe we do need AI because if a
human wrote that work for [__] oh I
don't know I mean it's weird I mean
these companies must have just so much
market share that they don't really care
about how clear specific or they don't
care about differentiating themselves in
the market they just want to use some
random text and it'll be fine okay so I
have a follow-up question for you on
that
I know domain Authority is a big one
right when you have large companies with
huge market share like I don't want to
say SEO doesn't matter but you're
playing the game on easy mode versus
maybe smaller companies that are just
trying to break out that is that a fair
assumption to say yes yeah so what I
guess back to the conversation around C
and SEO if you are not a big company and
you're playing on hard mode what are
some way like is there are there
differences in approach and Str strategy
is it more longtail searching like what
what does the SEO think of and then how
can C partner with
that yeah you you can tell me how c a
partner but I um this is exactly what I
did for my business so breaking B2B
breaking bb.com is just over 90 days old
so we started on a literally a fresh
brand you did a Rebrand yeah that's is
literally what we did so we got a brand
new domain No Authority at all and I
thought right away like I need to prove
concept like I need to e my own dog food
and show show folks I can rank so this
is what any oh I did not know that's I
love that sorry I'm sorry that's really
cool I I didn't know you did it for
those reasons but I love that you're
you're you're talking the talk and
you're walking the walk yeah so we we've
got an episode recently like if you go
on breaking breaking bb.com and then hit
the podcast tab you can see this like
not results in 90 days it's a recent app
anyway so what we did which other
companies can do is you literally just
fire up a Google sheet this this is for
B2B angle and what I did was I literally
wrote down a list of what are the main
niches I want to serve are the main
industries that I want to serve in my
Cas is like B2B SAS fintech that kind of
stuff what are the main what are the
main offers I want to sell them in my
case SEO web design podcast production
um but these industries and these niches
can't just be any that I fancy that I
think's cool or might have cash these
have got to have the rating problem the
expensive problem I fix they've got to
be motivated to fix it and they've got
to be e able to easily invest it in it
they've got to have the cash ready like
these companies got to have that and
understand that's something they want to
invest in actively like I've I've spent
so much of my time in past Years Gone by
trying to sell stuff to folks that want
it but just can't afford it like you
want to focus on your offers when it
comes to SEO to be a no-brainer yeah um
so basically list out all the niches
list out all the offers and then like
you said you go for longtale searches so
in our case it was like I don't know a
page for B2B SEO company B2B SAS SEO web
design um fintech web design and then
you do what we talked about earlier once
you've identified what we call those
money keywords aree the ones that are
going to drive Target
clients and if you're in SAS you might
look at Alternatives like we talked
about earlier look at some of those
keywords to snap up quick wins once
you've made that comprehensive list you
probably run it through a tool like HF
so you can start with the lower
difficulty ones first then you'll look
at the intent so for each keyword you'll
literally type on Google you look at
what type of content is ranking if it's
a listicle an article product page
landing page solution page industry page
whatever then you'll assess each page
what's ranking number one organic number
two organic how's the page structured
how's the formatting what are they
talking about what are the gaps what can
I hit that they're not doing to one up
this page in every single way possible
so when I built out the B2B SEO page
that's that was position one in the UK
within 90 days and I think it's like
five or six now in the US which is not
bad considering we went for zero um and
I literally look for any angles that I
could one up these these kind of
well-known um agencies so in my case I
like to weave in a FAQ section at the
bottom that literally addresses like
customer questions that we get on sales
calls headon like why are you guys so
expensive isn't Google ads quicker than
SEO doesn't SEO take really long to get
results like literally all these
questions and address them head on even
with pricing also weave in things like
our process
I'll weave in a howto video which is
custom for the page on YouTube which can
also improve your clickthrough rate
because YouTube videos can sometimes
show in the search end result page as
well as in a video section so you can
get a lot of extra clickthrough rates
from that and that's basically the
strategy I did I listed out all what I
call the money keywords for the money
niches made longtail keywords for those
built best in class pages after
assessing what's ranking well looked the
gaps I could hit hit on did some basic
technical SEO like make sure the meta
tile descriptions on point heading tags
page loads quickly Etc nothing too much
more than that to be honest yeah and
then ship the content but I shipped it
fast like we were producing like I don't
know 10 20 pages every couple weeks got
all those out so I think now the site's
like 40 50 pages but a lot of those
terms are got ranking within 90 days but
the extra thing that I did was any pages
that were somewhat lacking like position
10 11 12 I got links by leveraging
Partnerships so anyone that I knew knew
friends in my
network clients that went after the same
Idol client profile ICP as us but
weren't direct competitors I reached out
to them and offered to create content
for them offered to create like a long
form article that would be useful for
them and Their audience and then got a
bank link to some of those Focus Pages
um so that helped a lot with getting B2B
SEO agency kind of top ranking in in 0
days so that that's a snapshot of it and
there we have it I hope you found these
SEO and cro tips of use and if you want
to join thousands of Legends enjoying my
SEO and B2B marketing tips then try out
my daily newsletter over at breaking
bb.com and hit that newsletter Tab and
with that I'll catch you on the next one
cheers
[Music]